Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you very much for
participating.
Good morning, Taki Deles. Everyone. Welcome, everyone. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Again, we do three-minute silence meditation, and then we begin the session. Thank you again.
Welcome, everyone.
Thank you.
We've started with the seven-line prayer.
Again, I'd just like to say welcome everyone.
Thank you very much for participating.
Thank you very much, everyone, for giving me this opportunity to be with you all together and
organizing, arranging so many different -- our close, my friends, are really preparing these things
.
So I'm very thankful and grateful to all of you.
Thank you.
Today we continue to again the teachings on the Tushum Sani Guru Rinpoche.
That which is according to the teachings of the great Master, first Chinsi.
That taught his students.
And that is again received to his Holiness, Dhunur Rinpoche, from his Master, who was disciple of
the first Chinsi, first Kuntur, and Dhunur Rinpoche, the former predecessor of his Holiness, Dhunur
Rinpoche.
Many of you, I'm sure you all know his Holiness, Dhunur Rinpoche.
Japji Dhunur Rinpoche. Japji Dhunur Rinpoche was one of the great Masters, great teacher, great bod
hisattva, and one of the great region and emissaries of the Gurba Masambhava in the 20th century.
He was great at the teachings. He was also family, very, very family man, and humble and simple.
But his knowledge and realizations are just so magnificent.
Even though he don't really present that I am this and that I know this, he's so humble.
But yet, his presence, his knowledge, his love, and kindness, the comparison is just invaluable.
That all many beings who connect they know. He become the Master of so many great Masters, one
after the other.
So this is what his teachings. And we all connect with his great Masters, one way or the other.
Maybe he didn't meet that his presence, but yet there are so many of his disciples.
And that all carried his message and teaching.
That message of him is not something different than Buddha Chakra Muni and Gurba Masambhava.
Essence of teachings of those that he really presents.
So today, again, we are following one of whose great light that he shines to us.
And we are trying to observe that. And so we can connect strongly to Gurba Masambhava.
Who is the Buddha of the degeneration? Buddha of this era, this time, this present moment.
All the situation and circumstances are really so many different things happen.
I think there is nothing we can do more than invoke the power and the blessings and kindness of the
Gurba Masambhava.
That can dispel the obstacles and difficulties that challenge ourselves to our family members,
our fellow citizens, and all the beings of the six realms.
It is also an activity practice of our bodhichetas.
Yesterday, we discussed three lines. I think basically three lines.
Which represent as you all know. And today, I think maybe you have the English version.
English version is translated, available from the north of our house.
So we got this, I'm sure you all have that copy.
And you can look through that. We discussed yesterday, three, first three lines.
That, I think we discussed that, first three lines.
First three lines are explaining the realization and call it an achievement of who is Gurba Masambh
ava.
Why I'm saying who is? Gurba Masambhava is not past, nor is future.
He is living Buddha right now. Right now.
Gurba Masambhava is also, of course, we are talking now Gurba Masambhava as third person.
But actually, right if we have devotion, if we have the concentration, Gurba Masambhava is right in
front of us.
So we are speaking our own, call it our own great masters.
To each other, so that we can better understand, so we can connect it.
Gurba Masambhava is our teacher and represent all the teachers so that we connect it. Really.
So therefore, we are talking and we are explaining and following the teaching of his own Dhanjil R
ambaju or the first chancy.
First great chancy and this Dharma teaching is rewarded by, as you already said, you all know, is
Choyol Dhekin Langkwa.
We are exploring the greatness and kindness, compassion, realization, the achievement of the Gurba
Masambhava.
He is Buddha of all the times, as I mentioned, as we know.
Gurba Masambhava is Buddha, Gurba Masambhava is Dharma, Gurba Masambhava is Sangha.
Gurba Masambhava is Guru, Gurba Masambhava is Yadav, Gurba Masambhava is Dakini in Dharmavara.
Gurba Masambhava is Dharmakaya, Gurba Masambhava is Sambokaya, Gurba Masambhava is Nirmakaya.
That was the layout here by great post-chancy. Explored that meaning, so clearly brilliant, so that
we can connect it.
We can recognize as jewel, the breakage of the jewel as jewel, jewel, so special, special.
And that is echoed by the lineage master's and his only Dhanjil Rambaju, sheared and wrote down
here, so that we can connect it.
And explore that. And for that reason, how wonderful, how beautiful, how special.
And for that reason, always in the teachings said, I should remind that to all of us, to you and to
myself,
bring more joy, more appreciation, more thankful, more gratitude to many different levels.
And our lives, situation, circumstances, we are surrounded, even though we are in samsara.
We have lot of good reason to be celebrated, acknowledge things. We shouldn't forget.
Saying things and being great, it is a core Buddhism, the foundation, very foundation of Dharma.
Practice Dharma, since we practice Dharma. That is essence, foundation of Dharma.
When we practice Dharma, we should practice Dharma with joy, with appreciation, with thankful, with
open mind, open heart.
That is known as practitioners. Then, together with that, we combine with bodhicitta.
What is essence of bodhicitta is completion. You all know. We all heard that teaching.
But knowing is not just enough. We have to act like, activate that.
How we activate it? A core lineage instruction. Follow that.
And follow all that you all received. You all know. We all know, I am sambhrivi.
And which is recorded teaching, the sixth paramatas.
The greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, combines that and highlights that.
And it is so beautiful. And it is really too easy so that we can approach it, connect it.
And the sixth paramata practices, joy, appreciation, bodhicitta, is we are not going to have to
collect that somewhere else.
We don't have to be kind of like, something expert and fancy and rich and kind of like, very
skilled.
It is all a treasure of our heart, our nature of the mind, our self.
We explore that our richness, it makes rich of our self, our heart more rich, more goodness, and as
well as other beings in everyone.
So therefore, this is what really bodhicitta is so important.
So that means, again, if I some kind of more condensed way, bring you more joy, more appreciation,
more grateful with that thought with bodhicitta.
Have bodhicitta. And that bodhicitta thought is not limited bodhicitta thought for all the living
beings.
Every living being combined with what's called poor, immeasurable quality of the bodhicitta.
Poor, immeasurable, you all know, in a debate, same ever again, that same ever again.
Poor, boundless, poor, immeasurable, boundless love, boundless compassion, boundless joy or the
reduced, boundless equanimities.
When we have that thought, what it does? It makes our self more happier, more peaceful.
It will purify our obscurations, negativities, diseases, sickness.
It is mostly one of the powerful tools to healing our self.
Really, truly, it's not just a mythological story telling. It is evidence.
We each of us, we can witness it when we have really true love and compassion, joy and openness,
valence, thought.
It immediately turns the environment, our environment, our perception, something, different stages.
These are not stories that we can all know.
And that is practice. The foundation, heart of the dharma, heart of the practice, whatever dharma
you practice, such as that.
And this is also really the essence of any religions.
Loving-kind is compassion. It's the deep foundation, core of the religions, or the virtues, or the
spirituals.
That is what is.
So with this understanding, today, now we practice of the Gurbam Masam of Sisi.
Gurbam Masam of Sisi is totally enlightening.
And as here, as I said already, and you all know, you already have the booklet.
You all have that, I think, copy. You can read.
Now, if we go this way, it's now where we are today.
Today, the first, as I said, it's explaining of the Gurbam which is qualities, or the realization,
achievement of that.
So that means the object and subject, we say. Object and subject.
So now object is the object of rafooch, object of our soul, protective, guidance is Gurbam Masam
Baba,
who is the embodiment of all that explained. And as you read in the text, you see that.
As Thas and Danta, what's the realm of body right in front of our sky, in front of you, each of us.
We should see that. See that.
And that is then what is said.
And if I look to this one, I have this image today, so therefore I think I can maybe connect that
more betterly.
And so, now the first two lines and here.
Yesterday we went, I think, three and a half lines. Three and a half lines.
That represented, as he said, representative of the Gurbam Masam Baba Buddha, Gurbam Masam Baba
Dharma,
Sangha, Guru, Deva, Dakini, Dharmakaya, Sambokaya, Narmakaya, all that is what is explored.
So that means Gurbam Masam Baba, simply Gurbam Masam Baba, embodiment of all the object roughness.
That's what it is. All object roughness. Object roughness.
The next one is what? How he becomes object roughness.
Or how he becomes embodiment of all that enlightenment.
That explaining here, here in this second part of the third lines, in what is indicated.
Rathpur, Subjugato of the Mahas.
So that is what.
And Gurbam Masam Baba, actually of course, is what?
Of course, I'm sure you all know that.
Gurbam Masam Baba is according to teaching, reincarnation of the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Why I'm saying that?
Because, when Buddha Shakyamuni announced his Mahaparinarana,
which means passing away in the normal language, but his Mahaparinarana,
beyond the samsara nirvana, when he began to departing that.
He announced that.
And many Sangha members, or disciples,
and particularly Ananda, feel very upset.
At that time, Gurbam Masam Baba told to Ananda,
"Ananda, you should not be upset."
I will be back after eight years from my Mahaparinarana,
and back even better than myself.
Reality, there is no higher realization better than the Buddha Shakyamuni himself,
but Buddha Shakyamuni liked to glorify his reincarnations of the future.
Who will be that? Gurbam Masam Baba.
Why, he said, why he is better?
Because he will be born from lotus.
He will be free from death and birth.
Death and birth.
And therefore all those reasons Buddha used.
Reality, according to the teaching, the death and the birth is just the only dream.
There is nothing changed in the reality level, in the Dharma-Kaya level.
Death and birth, and not just the death and birth,
all the display of the samsara or the relative truth is merely magic show,
displays of the nature.
Reality is the same, no difference.
But however, Buddha glorified his reincarnation.
Therefore, Gurbam Masam Baba is known as Buddha's reincarnation of Buddha Shakyamuni.
Also, Gurbam Masam Baba, according to the teaching,
he is teaching of the Vedayana teachings.
Buddha Shakyamuni gives Vedayana teachings in higher realms.
But in the human level, that time,
he gives more in the basic teachings as well as Mahayana teachings, Sutra Mahayana teachings.
But the Vedayana teachings, he gives only higher realms.
As the Buddha Shakyamuni gives the Vedayana teachings in higher realms,
who export that teaching to available?
This is one of those great masters, Gurbam Masam Baba, who bought.
Therefore, in the teaching often mentioned,
Gurbam Masam Baba is master or teacher of the Tantras and Vedayana teachings.
On the other hand, of course, you all know, just to say it briefly,
Gurbam Masam Baba is also known as emanation of the Buddha Amitabha,
living Buddha Amitabha right now,
in the pure land of the Sukhavati or Devakim, and living.
And his emanations, Gurbam Masam Baba is emanation.
How the teaching says that?
And Buddha Shakyamuni says, "Amitabha is dharmakaya Buddha.
"Avalokudishora or Chinyasai is narmakaya Buddha."
Sorry, Sambokaya Buddha.
And Gurbam Masam Baba is narmakaya Buddha.
of the Amitabha.
So, it is the same Buddha that emanated.
From the heart center of the Buddha Amitabha,
and he said, "Aminated the golden light with five points of the golden regular."
Five points of the golden regular.
"To the right, the middle of the like dharmakaya
"on the middle, the center of the lotus."
Pristral lotus.
And there, Gurbam Masam Baba immediately appeared.
As, at year, youth.
At year old, youth.
A bird, youthful, say this.
And that is.
And Gurbam Masam Baba has no history.
That passed away.
When he came to Tibet,
after staying about 55 years according to teaching,
teaching all the different days according,
but about 55 years history.
And he left Tibet.
He flew away in the sky, as a Garuda, or as a bird,
with all the instructions, teachings, finite instructions, teachings.
Trita, Tibetan king, and ministers, and men and women,
and all that disciples, he gave, and he flew away.
And in a sense, also he said, "I am never going away.
"I will be always with you.
"And I will assure you, every such vacuum and circumstance,
"ever you call me, really."
And therefore, Gurbam Masam Baba, ever since,
is very active, living Buddhas.
So how he achieved in a relative level, and here.
Then he said, "Here."
What did he say, "Here?"
This is, I'm explaining, this rat for subjugate the Mara.
You look to that, and then I just go into Tibet.
That is a little more easy for me to go into.
And he said, because what he did,
he said he completely destroyed, or destroyed subjugated poor demons
in his own status.
Maybe we discussed that yesterday a little bit too.
His own natural status.
So that means what?
It's not, is killing someone or subjugating someone
as a subject object.
Subjugated, it is own status, own natural status.
What are those four demons?
As I said yesterday, and many of you know that,
but again I repeat it.
The demon of the emotions, negative emotions.
How do you subjugate negative emotions?
When you subjugate those negative emotions,
or liberate those negative emotions within the spirit of the nature,
of the great emptiness, that is subjugating.
When you subjugate those negative emotions,
what is the name?
Known as five wisdom, which I'm also explaining later,
so I won't go here.
Five wisdom.
When you achieve the five wisdom,
when you transform all the negative emotions in the wisdom,
that is subjugation.
There is nothing left behind, behind something,
or this is the reminding of that subjugation, something we can see.
That is called subjugating its own natural status.
And the next demon is what?
Demon of the aggregates.
What is aggregates, actually?
Those five aggregates, you all know.
Again, this is already mentioned in later, so I will go over that.
But how Gurbi and Masambhava are transformed?
Alrigates are all transformed into the wisdom.
Physical forms are transformed into rainbow body.
That is subjugating.
That is subtle.
Our gross body of the element, fire, water, wind, earth,
is transformed into wisdom.
That's called rainbow body.
It's subtle.
All that, the grossest element, the particles, everything transcendent.
And the refined wisdom status, as like the light.
Right?
That is the sudhu getting, the aggregate, demon of aggregates.
And the demon, sudhu with the demon of the distractions.
I translate it.
I'm sure you see here how they translate it.
But I'm translated as a distraction.
How that translates?
When you have the perfect samadhi realizations and the wisdom,
when you have the power of mindfulness, alertness, consciousness,
that transforms into the wisdom status.
There are no distractions.
No distractions.
All that distraction is disappeared.
Everything is meaningful activities.
That is subduing the demon of the distractions.
And then, what is demon of the death?
That obviously is the Ngharabhema Samba we all know,
beyond the death and birth.
The notion of the death is disappeared from Ngharabhema Samba.
That means what?
Dissolving, declaring our physical forms.
Merging our physical forms, if you read the Bible books,
one after another is merging.
That means losing the strength and energy and vitality of the physical forms.
That never happens in Ngharabhema.
It's all transformed into Muslim.
To defeat it and substitute the demon of the death.
That's the how Ngharabhema Samba achieved and started as a transcendental,
rainbow body of the enlightenment Buddha.
Totally enlightenment in the Buddha of now.
Right? Leaving Buddha now.
And then here, say, in the Tibetan language,
maybe in the English, not exactly maybe,
but subduing the three enemies.
And now there are three enemies.
What are these enemies?
It's not an enemy as duality consumption.
Labored enemies.
This enemy is bigger, more deeper, more massive.
This enemy is duality.
Ngharabhema Samba don't have the duality mind.
Duality mind means clinging, grasping,
clinging to the subject, clinging to the object,
and clinging, clinging.
Ammonite it. That.
So that here is what in the Tibetan world I am going to use.
And now there are the three enemies.
The externally duality, inwardly emotions,
and secretly all the conceptions.
Consruptions.
Those are the enemies.
Why is it used metaphorically enemies?
Because they are the fundamentally really obstacles,
our well-being, happiness, and peace.
Constant health. There are what's called not helping.
Constantly disturbing.
And what the great Master Chantideva said,
Chantideva said, this grasping or this ego clinging
is continually disturbing from the beginning times.
This is the biggest devil.
Why this ego clinging I should keep?
This clinging, there is no actual reality existing ego
or cling that we can hold.
It's only mental status.
How we form the ego according to the teaching.
We form the ego by the formation, poem, and name.
Three things.
Poems, our physical poems, our formation what we think,
kind of formation of the appearance, and our name.
Whatever the name we have.
Combined mixed together they think I.
Reality is all this illusion.
So we are grasping, holding the illusion of the bubble
that is not really solid existing as ego
or as so important.
Important.
So that is what the Gurbam Masambha subdue.
Analytically.
Native.
That is the Gurbam Masambha.
And therefore, Gurbam Masambha what is?
Again I say sambha which you tell.
Gurbam Masambha embodiment of old but as loving kindness.
Embodiment of old but as compassion.
Embodiment of old but as versatile.
versatile come together or Buddha's bodhisattva.
All that come together in one single state as Gurbam Masambha.
So that is our object of rafuj.
That explaining all the quality, achievement, realization
of the Gurbam Masambha.
Next one is then we go here.
Yeah.
Now is from here.
And we look to here in this again English group.
And that is it.
To you I pray.
From that on is now ourself.
So we feel the strong presence of Gurbam Masambha
as old that call it as we went through.
And more than that I'm calling it achievement, realization
of Gurbam Masambha or Buddha's are really beyond the speech.
But there is no word to explain it.
Actually what we are talking is just like what's called the tip
of the iceberg or just tip of what we're talking.
It's immense.
I mean this is immeasurable in the teachings here.
The call of Buddha is even the great bodhisattva.
Manjushri is trying, the most intelligent, highly versatile,
enlightenment, is trying to explain the call of Buddha
for eons still not completed, not finished.
That is really the call of the Buddha's.
But here is this condensed so that we can connect something
to our duality mind so we can really explore our call it
and have the realization as Gurbam Masambha.
So that is what is.
Now to that from here onward is then our practitioners,
what we want.
So here sitting here again so I will go with my spirit and say this.
So here.
And here again I pray here.
To you I pray.
There is according our capabilities there is three different ways to pray.
Praise.
I mean it's as His Holiness or the past great chance to explain it here.
So I mean you can look there too.
The first prayer is, is what Nini said here.
Nini said outwardly to pray with permanent devotion,
a strong yearning with that quickly accomplishing our desire
to attend only in the supreme cities is this practices.
This is the practices.
Practice of the nimbas.
So this is how we practice this.
How we pray.
Here I say the permanent devotions.
What that means is permanent devotions.
Generally it means confidence.
Permanent devotion means confidence with the knowing the richness qualities,
richness benefits.
You have the confidence.
Generally in the Buddha teaching that faith is so important.
And of course any religions I think faith is so important.
F-A-I-T-H faith is so important.
What in the teaching great master Nagarjuna said,
what is most important for to practice?
When we starting or starting contemplating meditation,
first the most important is faith.
Then what is important next is wisdom.
Among the faith and the wisdom which is more important, Nagarjuna said.
Again his own.
He said wisdom is important.
Wisdom is more important.
Even though wisdom is so important but in order to bring the wisdom you need faith.
So what means faith actually then?
Inspire.
Inspirations.
You have to inspire.
That is according to Buddha's teaching there is three different faiths.
First, second and third.
First is inspired.
That is the beginning of faith.
How that happened?
Great master Jimi Langpa said in his teaching.
Said, said there is two causes.
One of the cause is to inspire.
You have good friend of the spiritual friend.
Good accompanying with the spiritual friends.
And contract with the qualified teachers.
And the bored and the tired with the samsara activities.
Samsara activities.
And then feel because of those and reading the books of the Buddha or the Buddha Dharma Sangha.
And then you aspire.
That is the beginning of the inspiration or beginning of the faith.
Second is faith in the Buddha's teaching.
Teaching is desiring.
Now we actually engage more.
Not just inspired kind of looking distantly but now you like to evolve more.
Engaging and participating.
Practicing, starting, learning, some good things.
That is the second.
It's more deeper than inspiration.
But inspiration is there.
It's not gone.
Because of inspiration and now you become more deepening.
Or not just you, we are more deepening ourselves.
Then you more understand, more knowledge, more confidence.
Then you build the confidence.
Now you have the confidence.
Strong confidence.
That is Danyakkol.
Confidence, the great master, the Jigulam master.
Unshakeable confidence.
Confidence.
Unshakeable confidence to the Dharma, to the Sangha and to the Buddha.
All the teachings, practicing.
Now truly it is.
So that means no matter what ever happened,
saturation, circumstance, good change and all that is not going to expire.
Many times our devotion, interest and joys are expired.
Kind of decline.
It just looks like a stamp, what's it called?
Stamped dates on the bottle or the containers and then it's expired.
Why not? Why that?
Because the inspiration is a decline and the involvement is a decline.
And then your effort is a decline.
All that can decline and then it's expired.
When you have the unshakeable devotion, confidence and understanding,
it's never going to dissipate.
More business.
Situations, circumstances, whatever is happening,
extended, whatever, kundraic era,
even is become more stronger, more bigger, stronger.
Strength, ability.
As in the uses, in the teachings, sometimes the pile of the end of ear,
or volcano piles, they're never going to demolish it.
Stone and the stone.
And then you completely transform it.
So this is what here, the immense devotion.
It's confidence.
The third devotion.
And that third devotion in the Buddha teaching,
or the practice lineage, in the instructions in the teaching,
sometimes says you have the pile, what's called the pile of confidence,
pile of different confidence or pile of different knowledge.
And now see that.
What are those five?
If I listed that, listed, first confidence is,
such as the Gurbama sambhava.
See, have the confidence.
Gurbama sambhava is embodiment of all the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha.
And as explained here, Guru Deva Dakini and Altarik Ayas, surely.
And so that is second, first.
Second confidence, all the activities of the Gurbama sambhava
is activity of the Buddha's activities.
What that means, Buddha's activities,
is absolutely best upon the wisdom and the comparison.
Even though they appeared in the rough, in all these things, different things.
But it is all in the comparison.
Love and helping as needed, helping, supporting, all that.
And third.
And third confidence.
See, Gurbama sambhava is even,
even though it is as equal as the Buddha,
all the Buddhas are more enlightened beings,
but Gurbama sambhava is even more kind,
kinder to myself than the old Buddhas.
Buddha, more kind.
Because Gurbama sambhava is a living master,
or embodiment of all the teachers.
And Gurbama sambhava bought all the lineage teachings.
Teachings, teachings.
And then fourth one is, Gurbama sambhava is,
is that, I think maybe I mixed it a little bit.
Gurbama sambhava is embodiment of all the Buddhas,
every enlightened beings.
There is no other better enlightened beings than Gurbama sambhava.
And that is fourth.
Fifth confidence.
If I follow the instructions and the teachings
of the Gurbama sambhava,
I will surely achieve enlightenment,
discover my innate inborn wisdom.
Have that confidence in heart and mind.
Mind and practicing, and I pray to you.
I pray.
That is immense here.
In here, I pray through the,
to prevent devotion and strong yearning that,
and quickly desire.
So that is really there.
When you have that thought,
then, then continually practices,
continually practices and all the achievements
will come naturally.
When you have that, prevent the devotion
and the connection to Gurbama sambhava with that.
And that is known as here.
I mean, it's not just here.
It is known as nimba in the Tibet.
Because here, if you look in English with this,
you see the small letter was slightly different.
Nimba, drupa, and lefjor in this section of that.
There is three lines, three words.
That's slightly different than the other words.
Nimba, which translated here, approaches,
drupa, accomplishments, and lefjor activities.
So that is then you will achieve those.
That is nimba. Nimba means what?
As translated already,
approaching or closely connecting, contact.
So that means, Gurbama sambhava right in front of the sky,
and with that immense devotion,
and that longing devotions,
and if you practice meditating, reciting, mantras,
that is known as closely connecting
to Gurbama sambhava, closely connecting.
With that closely connecting,
and then what is said here.
That, that.
And so that is outer here,
according to the great first agency or his own journey.
That nimba is closely connecting this.
And inwardly, with this, because of that,
now you explain it, or we explain it,
our realizations, not just localized that, localized,
and see all the three doors.
I mean, you looked at that, your English, of course.
In all the three doors here, what are the three doors?
Body, speech, our body, our speech, our mind,
all poem, song, space, all are here.
The medalla of the Gurbama sambhava.
So now the Gurbama sambhava is not just localized
right in front of our space, is that,
of course that is, but the whole universe,
the whole existence, everything,
is within the medalla of Gurbama sambhava.
This is not just came somewhere else,
and happened that.
No, reality is all in that status.
That state means what?
And the state of the poem is enlightened.
Song is enlightened.
Space, mind are enlightened.
Ordinarily, when we're discovering that,
why that happens?
Because according to the Buddha teaching,
we purify the curtain of the duality
that blocks to see that.
Then you see the reality phase,
or that moment we are home, or back to home, to sweet homes.
Until that will be a jifsu of the delusions.
Really, outer layer.
The moment you discover that is just a dream.
It's not just arrived.
That in the teaching, we heard so many times,
poem is five dhyana buddhas.
Our aggregate is of five male buddhas.
Five element is of five female buddhas.
We heard those when we visualize buddhas and dharas.
And all mantras, sound are the mantras.
This is what's called mandala of three caiyas,
or three doors.
Go, song, talk, body, speech, mind.
Sometimes the terminology uses three various states,
various form, various sound, various mind and speech.
This is not just newly arrived.
Newly arrived is constructed.
It's propagated by the consumption.
It's organized.
Therefore, when you achieve enlightenment,
reach the realization, then that's it.
It's never going to be.
Again, lost that realization.
Change is forever.
We are residing in that state all the time,
but we did not recognize.
By the teaching of the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni and Gaurav Emma Sambaba,
now we can connect.
We can reveal our treasures,
our knowledge, our realization.
That is what is known as the mandala of this.
When you see that clearly here,
that is what here is named as accomplishment.
This is not just a small accomplishment.
That's the great accomplishment.
So first is the approach,
and the second is accomplishment.
Accomplishment, our own.
We returned back to our dominions.
Our dominions returned back.
That is accomplishment.
The next one is according here, here and what?
It is according to the secondary level.
Secondary level, that is then activities.
Secondary level is then again.
All these things, what we're talking,
immense devotion, first approach,
and the second is accomplishment, all that.
But reality level, where is all that?
Where is it coming?
Where is that all happening?
In here, His Holiness Duryumutya,
or the first great intensity,
only so clearly is our own nature of the mind,
our own mind.
The trail is right here with us.
We are just only here.
In the Buddha teaching, as I said yesterday,
and you know, I mean, it's not something I'm saying,
that I'm saying that you don't know, really.
In a way, we remind each other that, you know.
Buddha said, in the Buddha,
the sutramahayana teachings,
everyone inherited enlightened beings.
Enlightenment, all that.
And those are clearly exploited
by the great Master Nagarjuna and Bhatira or Ashenghas.
And all the great Masters mentioned,
the Buddha, all the mandalas,
everything is residing within our heart and mind,
in our nature of the mind.
Our nature of the mind is, as here,
say the secondary level,
is embodiment of pork eyes, pork eyes,
and the five wisdom.
It's already there.
This pork eye and the five wisdom,
that is absolute Buddhists,
absolute gurus,
or absolute Gaurabhamma Sambo.
And for that reason, in the Thermatikins,
something you said today,
Thermatikins said,
looking to your own energy and nature of the mind,
which is free from the past,
the future, or three times,
free from the three times,
presently awareness, fresh, naked nature,
is the absolute Lama,
absolute Gaurabhamma Sambo.
Behold in that is,
you are beholding the true face of Lama,
that which is his only Nuru Mooji's teaching,
in short Hindu practices.
He said, what?
Dissolving Lama,
and behold,
dissolving to Lama one's own heart,
and beholding to the one's own awareness
is true face of Lama.
That means true Lama.
That is true Lama,
the absolute Lama,
the original Lama,
and the Lama of forever.
Yes.
Many times in teaching those great practitioners,
I called my root teacher,
calling Lama power,
but when I discovered of the Lama or teacher,
Lama is not out.
Lama is within.
With that immense discover of the joy,
I relaxed.
Those are in the teaching set.
When you discover that teaching,
what it comes?
Love, compassion, joy,
wisdom, understanding,
respect and appreciation,
all the bodhicchathas,
all that comes,
just flowing there.
And you become so humble,
simple,
droned to the earth,
with full common sense.
Truly that is then,
we become the one with the beautiful human beings,
or beautiful sentient beings,
on this planet.
That is.
That is discovery.
So to discover that here,
as Nirmaj said, post-great kensi,
and see that with great confidence,
relax in that natural status.
Don't make any publication activity,
this and that, engage.
Be relaxed, become peaceful,
and be in that,
be in that status.
That is your beholding Lama.
You are merging with the absolute Lama.
Lama with our own natural status.
That is here.
That is actualizing.
So approaching, accomplishing,
and then actualizing.
and actualizing.
What's called here?
Activity.
That is activity.
And that is also,
I'm translating as then you actualize.
You actualize, you engage.
And the next one is now,
we go to the next one.
Next one is,
and then again you look to this.
So we pray.
So this time,
pray is not just a praying as a subject or object,
but praying is relaxing in the natural state,
keeping that, or abiding in that state,
continued is the praying.
This prayer is not effort, effortless,
calm and relaxed.
That is also ultimate teaching of the Dzogchen,
or Dzogchen, or the Mahamudala,
all those teachings.
When that comes here,
it is what in the teachings said many times,
in the suttas, or in many teachings too,
in Dzogchen teachings.
There is nothing to remove,
nothing to add,
relaxing in the natural state as it is.
When you behold that natural state as it is,
that moment will liberate it.
That is simple,
but yet with mindfulness,
joyful effort,
and all those continuation without destructing.
What is Dzogchen?
Dzogchen is emotions.
Restruct means we are carried by maybe attachment,
or anger, or jealous, heavy thoughts,
or combination,
and then also a transform that all emotions
in the anxieties, and worry,
and all those things.
That is Dzogchen.
That is samsara mind.
Dzogchen is samsara.
That is known as root of samsara.
Root of samsara.
That is in samsara.
The root of samsara.
That root is just a vein.
It is spread out.
It is endless.
It is like ripples of samsara.
That becomes bigger, bigger, bigger,
and then it creates waves and tides,
and clashing back and forth.
Reality level is all mental state.
The next one.
Now the next one is great blessings.
Great blessings.
Again, blessing is what?
And here it says,
so it is reaffirming that actualizing.
When the blessing comes,
the body blessing of the guru comes,
then our body, all the forms become the major body
of the translucent state.
When the speech blessing comes of the guru,
the guru and the sambhava,
all our mind and voice,
sorry, all our soul systems and our voice,
and all the soul systems become as a regular song.
And then when mind blessing comes of the guru
and the sambhava realization becomes,
and then our, all the space and our mind
all become as first awareness,
regular status or mind,
regular mind that actualizes.
So that means that what?
Reaffirming, reactualizing,
restating of what I already mentioned,
that actualizing.
Actualizing Pope Gaius and the five of us,
that is, is then the blessings.
We got that.
That is really the blessings.
That means we discovered our treasures,
our natural qualities as we have.
That is the blessings.
Very blessings.
That blessings.
And then of course, the five of us,
the four Gaius and the five of us,
what are those?
Of course, I'm sure you all know,
but I would just say the names.
We are already talking about the dharmakaya,
sambhokaya, and dharmakaya.
Those are the three Gaius.
Poltakaya is suvabakaya.
So in Sanskrit world,
which of course all is, I think, Sanskrit world,
suvabakaya.
So I translated all those into English,
roughly dharmakaya means the body.
Dharma is nature.
If I translate it now,
now this is dharma as nature.
So poem of the nature,
poem of that is dharmakaya,
and the sambhokaya is poem, F-O-R-M.
Poem of the luxuries, luxuries.
And then narmakaya, poem as emanation,
and suvabakaya as poem of as it is.
And the suvabakayas and dharmakayas
are slightly different.
What is the difference in the teaching?
The teaching said what is dharmakaya
has explaining more clarity of the nature
and the suvabak explaining more emptiness
or the space aspect of the nature.
That is a slightly different reality than dharmakaya
and the suvabakaya is similar.
And of course, after all, these three kayas are no difference from each other.
Narmakaya contains all that four kayas,
sambhokaya contains all four kayas,
and dharmakaya has all that four kayas.
So it's not something different from the west and the southeast.
It's really all in itself.
It's just the only aspect of that.
That is just love.
Of course, you all know those things, so you can do more.
And the five of us are...
Five of us are, of course, I think you know, but I will list the names.
Dharmadattu of us, Beralek of us,
Econymiti of usudoms, and just Kramen nation awareness of usudoms,
or distinctly clearly understanding of usudoms
and all accomplishing usudoms.
Those are the five usudoms, five usudoms.
And so that, when you achieve that goal,
and that is known as Buddhism or Mahayana Buddhism,
all Mahayana Buddhism is enlightened, you become the Buddha.
And the symbol to summarize all that usudoms,
as I mentioned earlier, and you all know,
love and kindness, compassion, wisdom.
Those are all really usudoms.
Or every other way to tell that usudoms,
all the five usudoms, to summarize,
those are known as usudoms that know every...
all the relevant truths as it is, the wisdom that knows exactly...
absolute truth as it is, that is two usudoms.
Then in teaching, say, all that combine with one wisdom,
the wisdom that knows all.
That is... all... that means all...
relevant truths, absolute truths, whatever it is, all knows.
That is, in the debate, it's a number, time change, and we should go.
So that is all of us, that is the Buddha.
And now, here we go.
Go to the next one, and which is, now, by the brain.
The brain here, this field here, then...
And then here, that's...
Now, among these five, six fragile lines,
we are in the pit lines, pit lines,
which is dispelled out in sicker obstacles.
So that means, by your blessings.
I pray to you, symbol to tell, I mean, you know that.
Symbol to tell, I pray to you, M.Sambhava.
And by your blessings, dispelled all the obstacles.
That's it.
In and out of the obstacle.
And that is, now, you look here.
Dispelled... dispelled all obstacles.
And that is, according to this,
and the obstacles of the...
all our... generally, every talk is kind of simple,
which will tell obstacles of the joy, in peace,
happiness, well-being, and fulfillment in our lives.
Those are very kind of, in a way, basic things.
So dispelled all that obstacle.
So that means, what?
May I have the well-being?
May I have the fulfillment?
May I have the no kind of handedness, difficulty, challenge, trouble?
And those are dispelled.
The normal, average wishes of the samsara beings.
Then, specifically, kind of wishes, what we have.
Obstacles are obstacles for our meditations.
Or that means to achieve enlightenment,
or to become the Buddha, in order to benefit all living beings.
So that means, the obstacles for our bodhichatas.
Obstacles for bodhichatas.
Bodhichata is our goal to benefit for all sentient beings.
Bodhichata is our goal to reveal that traitors.
Bodhichata is our traitors.
It's hiding behind all these kind of delusions and obscurations.
So now, we like to remove.
We like to dispel that.
Order to dispel that is not always easy.
There is so many difficulties, so many challenges, so many troubles.
It really comes one after another.
Even you have higher realizations.
Higher realizations.
And that also still can happen.
And for those reasons, here, sitting here.
And here, what is generally said,
this is all the obstacles.
And the outer obstacles.
These outer obstacles are clearly isolated here.
I'm not going to talk too much.
I mean, you all know this.
There are 60 different obstacles.
Those are related with all our negative emotions.
Five poses.
And fundamentally, again, it's said, five poses.
But five poses, again, to point down five poses,
where it arises, is ego claims.
By our ego, self-importance is,
of course, due to that, all these emotions arise.
And why we have this ego claim is due to the ignorance.
Ignorance is drawn behind the scene,
but it is really fundamental obstacles.
And that, when it's reflected there,
and then according to teaching here, it says,
clearly, all those are the negative emotions
that are reflected in these different obstacles.
One after another.
There is 16 listed, and you see that.
So that is.
And actually, one, those are outer obstacles.
And that included, then, of course, sicknesses.
And losing our loved ones.
I mean, all those obstacles, really.
So that means all that purify it, outer obstacles.
And the inner of tiggers here says that four demons,
as we earlier mentioned.
The first one is that here listed the demon of the aggregates,
and the demon of the emotions,
and the demon of the, how did I get here?
You know?
So the demon of the negative,
second, the demon of the negative emotions.
And the third is the demon of the,
I translated, destructions.
But here, also, I mean, that's how it says,
translated, not translated.
This teaching is standard terminology.
It says the demon of the deceiving of the,
by the, here is pleasure, pleasure.
Or the demon, demon of the deceiving of the,
of the appealing.
Something is appealing, if I translate it.
So that is the demon of the appealing.
Something that is appeals to me, appeals.
I like that, I just, I like that.
I would like to be this, kind of this, that.
But that is one of the, according to the teaching,
say, one of the biggest demons.
Why?
It is so, so passive, passive.
So naive, so passive.
See, it's very sneaky, it's sneaky.
You don't really see that is obstacle
until it made something big trouble.
It's just, they say, very crawling, crawling, kind of armed.
A-N-T armed, crawling armed.
Behind the scene, it become bigger and bigger,
and then it will now drown us.
That can happen even great practitioners,
or really beings in the Buddha teaching.
That's why it's called, called here, translated,
very deceiving.
But because it's appealing. Why is it appealing?
Or is it like this aggregate of the,
a demon of, aggregate, a demon of the emotional,
very noticeable.
Every, every kind will have good practice,
and every of the mindful, immediately we can catch this.
But this is something so passive,
underground in a way.
It's just this mind.
And this is all related with,
sensually pleasure objects of the senses.
Eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind,
and of feelings, what is.
That is big disturbance, disturbance.
So that is demons.
And then demon of the human.
The death. That is then, of course, obvious demon of death.
It is disturbing, interrupting our continuation
of the practice, meditation.
And then it's also fundamentally,
this demon of the death is best upon the ego clings.
Because we cling ourself. Ourself.
And then what great master known as Gautam Chakra,
he said, there's nothing more precious in the samsara
than our own lives.
L-I-F-E.
Therefore, to protect the life is so important.
And for that reason, I may give very famous teachings
of the practice of the white tharas.
White tharas is considered one of the very longevity Buddhists.
So you see that.
So that's the really how it is.
That is poor demons.
And now I said already before, a few times,
so I won't go over those four demons.
And then there is also the inner obstacles.
The secret obstacles are then, again, same thing.
Negative emotions.
And those are then here.
Attachment, anger, anger, ignorance.
And arrogance and jealousness.
All those obstacles.
Those are obstacles.
When you transform those obstacles, what is it?
The attachment transformed.
Discrimination, awareness of wisdom.
And anger, when transformed or liberated,
marrow-like wisdom.
Ignorant, transformed as dharmadatta wisdom.
Arrogant, transformed as--
Oh, maybe I mixed up a little bit.
Oh, no, not mixed up.
And the arrogant, transformed as equanimated wisdom.
And jealous, transformed as all accomplished wisdom.
So when you were able to do that,
or even we didn't be able to do that,
immediately we kept by our mindfulness,
alertness, consciousness, not carried by too forcefully, too far.
That is known as transforming.
That is a good sign of the practitioners.
You catch that before there are so many things.
Whenever you can transform that into wisdom,
what is that?
Then it's OK teaching, often mentioned.
Liberating in its own state.
Without getting any other remedies,
moment in any of those emotions arising,
looking to the source of that emotions.
And which is mind.
Then when you look to the source of that emotions,
even looks like emotions are stolen there.
But when you look, there is no relief source.
We can pinpoint.
It's from emptiness.
Hovering from emptiness and hovering.
And it's happening in the emptiness.
It's also going back to the emptiness.
Emptiness of mind.
Comes from the emptiness of mind.
And hovering to the emptiness of the state of the mind.
And returning back.
Today, every state of mind, every good practitioner.
Every day we account, we couldn't handle that well.
Then it's hovering in the emptiness state.
Even though it's the emptiness, but then it becomes.
Then what did that happen?
When that happened, what is called?
Then we created the karma.
These negative emotions are generally in the Buddha teaching.
As we think of them, according to Paul's novel truth,
this is the cause of suffering truth.
This is the cause of suffering truth.
And so these emotions are creating that now.
Suffering truth.
They are the creator.
They are the producer of the karma.
And that creates, then, difficulty, challenges.
So, before that happens, if you are able to handle that,
that is known as, then, practitioner.
How you are really practicing that.
So that, and now again, with this all,
so what is going to disturb?
Here, his own teaching in the state,
it is disturbed for enlightenment, and well-being, and the performance, all that.
So therefore, the outer obstacles are completely transcendental
by the high realizations of the whole.
Everything is a mandala of the deity, and the mantra,
and the display of the Dharma kyasi.
That will completely purify it.
And inner obstacles are completely purified by the,
when you don't hold the grasping, or don't hold the ego clinging,
that will just completely pacify it.
And then, the cigarette obstacles, all those negative,
five negative emotions, when you see they are the five wisdom stages,
then that moment, all those situations, circumstances,
you are transferred to the path, into the path.
So then, it is really practicing.
Then, you are in the path, you are following the path.
So therefore, those reasons,
then I am going to assemble to use the helmet.
I may have the capability to do this, this.
So that is the meaning of the pit line.
And the sixth line is now...
Sixth line is...
Sixth line is, and please look to that,
and grant your blessings,
grant your blessings to all our aspirations are simultaneously fulfilled.
So that is the final word, or lines,
six major lines as it has, so that is.
And so that is what, now here.
Again, if you look to your English, then what is?
And so these all sit, which followings are the,
which followings the wishes of the, for the time being,
and following the wishes of the ultimate levels.
The first one is, is the,
until I reach the enlightenment, as any teaching says,
so I don't have to really talk more,
that I will please grant me all this,
the opportunity, this situational circumstances,
which is known as then, here, known as the seven wealth of the upper rims.
What that means? Upper rims.
And according to the teaching, there is six rims.
That is entirely sentient beings.
And those six rims, three lower rims.
Hail rims, hungry goat rims, and animal rims.
Those are three lower rims.
Upper rims, three upper rims.
Human rims, Asura rims, and God's rims.
Rims, I think, are E-A-L-M rims.
Those are six rims.
So these seven triangles are not wealth or the reach of the three lower rims,
but this is the reach of the three upper rims.
And then, even though we are in the upper rims, many times we don't have that money.
That means we human beings don't have all these riches,
even though we want.
So here, pray to God for some of us.
So grant all this wealth, and those are the, I mean, it's already said here.
So then, you know those, long lives, and no diseases, and beautiful poems,
and very fortunate, and good families, and then wealth of prosperity,
and knowledge in the systems.
Those are the reaches of the seven rims.
Seven rims.
Oh, sorry.
Wealth of the three upper rims.
And then, and there's seven wealth of the practitioners.
I mean, practitioners, above that, that means it didn't mean that practitioners don't need that.
Above these seven luxuries, riches, and then being as practitioners of the Dharma Buddha teaching,
then we think these things, seven things.
What are those?
Those are, I mean, it's already mentioned.
Those are known as the noble wealth.
Noble wealth.
Why is it noble wealth?
When you have this wealth, you will become, or we will become good practitioners.
We will become good bodhisattvas.
We will become very beautiful human beings.
Decent, really common, very humble, simple, very sensible, we will become.
So therefore, this is, and these are the like, call it of the good practitioners.
These are, generally, good practitioners.
What is, first is here, said, "Paid," or the devotion, "Paid."
This, in the teaching, said, "Wealth of the," if I translate, "Wealth," or I also translate in here
,
in this, "Reach," riches, or the "Wealth of the Paired."
Wealth of the morality, ethics.
Wealth of the here, in the teaching here, said, "Join for effort."
And wealth of the sub-respects, or respect to the others.
And wealth of the knowledge, or stardings.
Wealth of the generositys.
Wealth of the openness.
Openness, that means wealth, generosity.
Wealth of the wisdom.
And we have that.
Many of you can think of those, or you can make details of these, of course, each of them.
Wealth of the Paired, we discussed already.
Wealth of the morality, or the ethics.
According Buddhism, ethics of the Apasakas, male and female, lay practitioners.
Ethics of the ordinary practitioners.
All ethics, the rules, the guidelines of the Vedayana teachings.
All ethics of the both of us. Those are all known as guidelines.
These guidelines, these ethics are generally in the Buddha teaching always.
It's really a foundation to grow all the good things.
So it's not just conduct, or this conduct is not that important.
Conduct is very foundational.
A foundation of all the growth of the spiritual realizations.
And then here, Jyotve effort is the vital, the fuel to practice the Dharma.
Fuel, without this fuel we won't go far.
And then the opposite of the Jyotve effort, till Dharma, is the laziness.
Sloppiness, not worry about it, motivate it.
Then just say we are continuously in the samsara, as we are. We are not really going to change it.
And then next one is the respect.
And I don't know how to translate it, that one I don't know.
Remember what I'm translating, respect.
Respect, respect to self-respect, respect to the others.
And self-respect to self-respect, don't do any mistakes.
Try to not do a mistake, straight out of respect.
Self-respect means respect to one's own self, respect to the family.
Family, all the country, all the villages, really be at.
Be at recently, nice, caucus, beautiful.
Be humble, that.
And respect to the others.
Even you have good college, respect to others, humble, simple, simple.
And with kind and compare you talk.
That is, if we do that, this is not something that we are out of Dharma.
It is Dharma.
That's what is the treasure of Dharma.
Dharma.
And then study, knowledge is so important.
Studying, all the knowledge is generally important.
And teaching is said in Buddhism.
Because Buddha is known as the omniscient, all-knowing, as we discussed earlier.
Why does that all-knowing come by studying?
Knowledge.
In the teaching, sometimes in the teaching, he said,
"Even you know you're going to die tomorrow, but still you should learn."
Why?
He said, "If you learn, you will keep that in the subconsciously stroll house."
Or subconsciously stroll house of the iCloud.
You will keep that.
In the iCloud of the subconsciousness, you will keep that.
Because of that, next lifetime you're just going to get back, eat very quickly.
Really good, couldn't you?
So learn, knowledge is so important.
Particularly learn the knowledge that's going to benefit,
that means going to make happy ourselves, make happy to others.
That stuff, that is so good.
So good.
This aligns our body to the activities too.
It's the body.
And then, the work of the treasure, sorry, generosity.
Generosity of the material generosity.
Generosity of the knowledge and generosity of all the assistants that help us,
those all the generalists.
So if you have the capabilities, if you can, it's not too much.
Help me to the other base, as much as we can, with good heart.
It is dharma, it is practice.
And then work of the wisdom, and also all those activities guided by the wisdom,
all those seven treasures are guided by the wisdom, knowledge.
So it's just that.
It becomes like, the wisdom is like, ah, it's guiding every aspect of the world.
So it becomes completely, very perfectly, beautiful, balanced.
Nicely beneficial, effective, reasonable, but developing.
Those are that.
So that is what it is.
And then finally, there is an ordinary nature.
It's kind of the goal of which is to get enlightenment.
And that is already mentioned, and you all know that.
So I won't go over too much.
But what is practice dharma?
Practice dharma, accumulate the realization, discover our inner nature of the mind.
Mind, as we discussed earlier, is joking practices, or Mahamudra practices.
He said, final achievement is the Mahatmudra realization.
Mahamudra means, means absolute nature of our own mind.
Discover that nature, which is known as the attack on the garba,
there is a terminology, and sometimes named as dharma-dhatu,
sometimes named as absolute bodhicata,
and sometimes named as ordinal mind.
What that means, ordinal mind?
Ordinal mind means, ordinal mind is free from the duality.
Duality is a publication.
But the mind that is free from the duality is the ordinal mind.
That is the natural, natural of our day, our nature.
And the debate is called nyumu sin, the natural mind.
Or sometimes even them, ordinal mind.
Ordinal mind means what? Not purplicated.
Purplicated what?
Purplicated of duality, or the emotions of grasping.
Then it becomes samsara.
But ordinal mind, ordinal mind, the absolute net bodhicata, is nature of our own.
Where this, according to Dukki teaching, all that they are teaching,
and the Buddha's teaching and the Sutra teaching is within our heart center.
It's right in our society.
For those reasons, many times in the teaching said,
the whole, the sama, the badra, the absolute sama, the badra,
self-awareness, sama, the badra, is residing right in the heart center
of the each living being, every living being.
No one is absent of that nature.
That, that is nature.
But by the, the reason of that, by receiving the teaching,
practicing with those old wealthy, applying those wealth,
this, the noble wealth, or the, this, the, yeah, noble wealth, applying.
And then, glorify the obscurations, obscurations, accommodate the merits,
the two merits, and actualize these realizations.
And then, then, reach perfectly in like state, as we are.
We regain back our, where we are, where we belong.
And that is a planet, wishes.
And by the blessings of the Gaurabheim sama, may I achieve that realization.
May I got that realization.
May I able to discover this nature.
That is really, then final wishes.
Then we perform the complete.
Then from that on, then we begin to benefit all the living beings.
As Buddhas, Bodhisattva, Gaurabheim sama, and helping to their sentient beings.
What's called in the teaching said, the pervasive beneficial activity,
continuation beneficial activity, and effortless beneficial activities.
Helping for all the sentient beings, emanating so many gaayas and dharma gaayas,
narmakaya and Gaurabheim sama emanated, such as at emanation of Gaurabheim sama,
or toward the emanation of Gaurabheim sama, benefited for that.
When you reach that realization, there is no restrictions.
No restrictions of this.
The reason, our duality is restricted, we can't do.
We just can't move anything too much.
It is stopped.
When you open the door of the true nature, as it is,
there is no restrictions.
In the teaching said, if needed, Buddha can be emanated toward them a million times,
without moving from the state where the Buddha is.
Moving, that can't do.
All that realization.
That is then the final achievement.
Then, of course, there is Gaurabheim sama, and all that.
And, of course, that you know, so I won't go over that, and you know that.
And this is on the Nirmuja Road.
This is the subcontinent of this teaching, or toward this teaching, at Bhutan, Tiger Nest.
Tiger Nest, he gave this teaching to his consort, or his, I think, his past wife,
wife of Nirmuja.
And he gave this teaching to him.
To him, subcontinent at Tiger Nest came in Bhutan,
which is one of the most famous playgrounds sport in the Tibetan Buddhism.
It is in the Bhutan.
It is very still famous in the Bhutan government.
And the world is keeping so beautiful, far from that places.
And so many great masters and practitioners go with that places.
It is really very amazing, astonishing, like places.
So, where he gave this teaching, I think he gave these teachings.
And around in his age 30s, 30s, he went in the Bhutan around age 30,
so that time he gave these teachings.
And that is my brief talk about this, to some Sanjaya practices today.
And now I go to the brief teachings on, again,
highlight the practice of the Shinshoja practices.
That you all, I mean, no, actually, of course, but again, it's not just, you know,
but I will talk a little bit as a reminder to all of us.
And that is the page.
According, this booklet and the page.
So, according, this booklet is 106.
And I'm sure many of you already may have heard that.
And so this is, as I said yesterday, it was taught,
this practice is taught by Pippin Ghanmaba.
Pippin Ghanmaba, his name is known as Kachap Doji or Kachap Dev Doji.
Doji, he was one of the very famous karmara reincarnation.
As I said yesterday, all the karmara reincarnation was very famous.
Why they are so famous?
Because their realization, achievement, and the benefits are activated.
They performed, the old beings.
And the practitioners, therefore, they saw famous, famous throughout the centuries.
And then, Ghanmaba is also known as, all the reincarnations,
known as reincarnation or emanation of the Awadokidish or any of these.
And also, Ghanmaba is reincarnation according to, according to 25 disciples
in Gharb and Masambo, there is, I think many of you know,
Gharb and Masambo has 25 principal disciples.
Among them, there is nine heart-like students.
Among the nine heart-like students, there is particularly when Gharb and Masambo
initiated at Heruka teachings to nine students.
And among that, nine heart students, and there is one very famous disciple
who is practitioners of the Pema family, or Hayagura family, or Amitabha family.
He was connected with Medhala, within Gharb and Masambo's empowerment.
His, this disciple, his name was Yaran Chovin.
Yaran Chovin.
Yaran Chovin flower dropped in the west direction of the Medhala of the Pema family.
So that's what he will become, he received entirely at Heruka teachings,
particularly teacher teachings of the Pema family and Hayagura teaching.
He practiced the Hayagura practices, and he become very renowned master of the Pema Heruka.
And Hayagura has horse head on the top of the Hayagura's head,
and this master, because of his realization meditating, the horse head appeared on his head.
It's called Yaran Chovin.
Look at the illustrations of the twenty-five disciples, there is his.
So Karmaba is a renowned emanation of the Yaran Chovins.
Yaran Chovins is a renowned emanation, and that's how it is.
And so this, between the Karmaba was a very famous Karmaba as all the other Karmapas.
And then he gave a lot of teachings, and he has over ten volumes of the teachings
that he composed and he wrote that.
And he was the disciple of the first great saint, first kunto, and many other masters in that time.
So this is what Karmaba really, of course you all know that.
And now this is Yishim Togya prayer.
Yishim Togya is again the mother of all the Buddhas, actually.
And why I'm saying this? Here, here, say this here.
Dhamma Dhatu here, every good is.
And Dhamma Dhatu, summit brother, mother of the old Buddhas.
That's what here, the great master Karmaba said, three, fifteen, the Karmaba said.
And Yishim Togya is really great mother, truly.
He was, or she is.
She is of course as well in the teaching, she is also living Buddha.
And she did it really fast way.
When he, I mean, in the life story of the Yishim Togya,
was revolved by quite three thetongs.
And particularly, there is a great thetong known as tashyam nudin dorji.
Tashyam nudin dorji.
And that life story, which translated into English,
and they are called sky dancers.
Sky dancer.
In the sky dancer, I think that Maishen, Yishim Togya was born
in the bird year, in the center of Tibet, in the Kachin family.
Bird year, B-I-R-D.
And he met Gaurab and Maasambhava around, according to the teaching,
around sixty years old when he met Gaurab and Maasambhava.
And according to the modern history,
Gaurab and Maasambhava came to Tibet
around mid-sixties of the eight centuries.
So seven in the mid-seventh century,
seven hundred, maybe sixty-three for around that time.
So every Yishim Togya met sixteen years old when he was sixteen years old.
So every kind of week followed that sixteen years
and connected to the bird year of the Yishim Togya born.
So then I will say he was born in the eighth century.
Again, seven hundred in the mid-forties.
Seven hundred mid-forties he was born.
And how long was Gaurab in Tibet?
Over two hundred years, according to the teaching.
You can look at that.
I don't remember exactly the numbers that Maishen did that in the sky dancers.
When Yishim Togya left Tibet, she didn't die.
She flew away, flew away.
And after that means, Gaurab and Maasambhava stayed in Tibet about fifty-five years.
So after that, Yishim Togya stayed over a hundred years.
A hundred years, you can calculate.
That is just like Raphu.
And when she did this, she did this, of course,
even though there is nothing that she achieved already enlightenment,
she already emanation of the Vedas Swarasottis.
Or here, as the teaching said, and it is true,
she is, in the Dharmakaya level, she is some of the Badri's,
or Pandya Paramata, which is mother of all the Buddhas.
Buddhism said, "Buddhas, how Buddhas reach enlightenment?
Because connect with Pandya Paramata.
What is Pandya Paramata? It is great emptiness, true nature, great emptiness."
What the great teacher, the Buddha Hakkamuni, said, "Those who want to achieve enlightenment,
Buddhahood, they should contract or practice Pandya Paramata.
Those who want to reach the bodhisattva realization,
they should practice Pandya Paramata.
Those who like to reach the party of Buddha, individual Buddha, or Rainshaji,
Those who like to achieve the realization of the Arhat, the Shravaka,
they should practice the Bodhi, Pandya Paramata.
So by practice of all Pandya Paramata,
all those realizations are booming up one afternoon.
For that reason, Pandya Paramata has four groups of children.
Those are groups of the Buddha, groups of bodhisattvas,
groups of the party of the Buddha, groups of the Shravaka, the Mahavas.
So this, therefore, then there is a mother.
Not just a mother.
Mother, once upon a time, is all the time.
And that's what also in hot sutra said too.
I think we'll eat.
All the Buddhas of the past practice the Pandya Paramata.
All Buddhas now practice the Pandya Paramata.
All pure Buddhas who come practice the Pandya Paramata.
That is known as Pandya Paramata.
It's an absolute mother, ordinary mother, precious mother,
unending mother, forever mother, mother of forever.
This is what that is.
What is that is Pandya Paramata?
It's the essence of compassion, loving kindness,
and wisdom of the great emptiness.
Because of that compassion of wisdom,
then the Pandya Paramata emanated so many Rupakaayas,
poem emanations, such as then,
Pimal Buddhas, Five Diamond Buddhas,
Vaitya Varahis, and so forth.
And then from that Sambho Gaya Buddha,
and then emanated the Nirmaka Gaya Buddha,
such as the Twenty-One Taras.
And then from the Twenty-One Taras,
Vaitya Swara Soti,
I move behind the brace of the Twenty-One Taras.
The Second Taras of the Twenty-One Taras
is praised to the, I think, to the Vaitya Swara Soti.
That the emanation of the Vaitya Swara Soti is Yishin Sohja.
Often in the teaching said that Yishin Sohja,
who is the emanation of the Swara Sohja,
why he took the birth or emanated in the Tabith,
the middle center of the Tabith.
Because to activate the teaching of the Garpa and Masambha,
to spread the teaching of the Garpa and Masambha,
to secure the teaching of the Garpa and Masambha,
what would benefit for all living beings.
That's why Yishin Sohja emanated,
born in the center of the Tabith,
and beautiful family, wealthy families,
very beautiful families.
The moment he was born,
and there is eruption of the spring water like him,
like was born and called.
And because of that, she is named as Yishin Sohja.
Swami is a Tibetan word, like, L-A-K-E, like Yishin Sohja.
The vector is a wisdom of the like.
That is Yishin Sohja.
And the moment she is born, she is residing in the teaching.
The walls and the consonants.
And she is uninterrupted by the womb or the birth.
She is so alert, so speechless.
At that moment, the earth is started rumbling a little bit,
echoing the sounds in the different corners of the spaces.
The divine is happy, the birth of these great Western beings
in the center of the Tabith,
in order to secure the teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni
and Gurbel Masambhas.
Then she grows and has beauty, and youth,
and knowledge is just incredible.
Everyone wants her hands, according to this,
but it is only God.
And the moment she is God, and she is so devoted to dharma,
and light, and then she connects to the Gurbel Masambha.
Ever since, she has become one of the great disciples
of the Gurbel Masambha.
Often, in the teaching, she said,
Jai Beitosam, king and a subject and a prince
are the three principal disciples of the Gurbel Masambha.
King means king to some devotees.
By me, it means the subject, the subject of the king's own death.
And it all means a friend.
Gurbel Masambha is a person, a friend, to become.
And her dedication, even though she is enlightened,
her dedication and devotion, the power, and the joy,
and the devotion to dharma is so incredible.
You can read the sky dancers.
Maybe the dancers or other books, they need so much practice,
so much meditation, so much also hardships in the way to the dharma.
Her courage and commitment never will linger, keep continuing.
And she becomes then enlightened.
Even though she is already enlightened,
but she shows us, for us, to achieve the enlightenment,
we need your effort, courage and commitment.
And devotion, as we discussed earlier, those five different components we need,
then we can defeat all those obstacles and revert our triangles
that benefit to all the beings.
Really, we can do.
So this is a great mother.
That is a prayer.
And throughout the years, so many practices, teachings,
so many by great thetans and masters,
and this is one of the short ones, simple ones, this, this.
And then Gaurav Yishin Soja is not just gone.
Gaurav Yishin Soja ever since is really a prayer to all the thetans.
And all those good practices, everyone starts saying, "Mother."
Every those thetans, if you read life stories,
she appeared in the dream, on the vision,
and actually formed and stopped how to do things,
how to do well, how to teach.
For example, Satsang Nga.
It was around the age of ten.
Ten, she came with Dakini's in the dream.
He is sleeping in the dream.
And she said with that,
"This boy, this son, she is the son.
This son is deluded,
deluded and stained by the negative energies.
Now we need to clean."
And Satsang Nga had that dream a long time.
She came with some other Dakini's in the dream,
and she is giving birth to Satsang Nga.
And cleaning, cleaning, cleaning.
And then she said, "Now clean.
Now you just prefer your principal goal.
Don't feel sleepy like this.
Don't feel sleepy.
Wake up yourself.
Carry your duty that you promised ancient time
in front of the European ensemble.
Now you must carry on."
She said that.
And he woke up.
When he woke up,
the sunlight is already shining in the room
where he is sleeping.
And he thought, "Oh, it's too late."
But that late, I think, that long,
talked to cleaning his department, whatever.
Then he really carried his duties.
But these are examples.
All those great Tertungs, great masters.
Really, Yikin Surya is active in the old ways.
And therefore, always, they said,
"Father and Gurba and Masambhava,
Mother Yishin Surya."
And every of those Tertungs have the great teachings.
So that is really of Yikin Surya.
And now here, here,
so Dharmakaya Dhatu, Mother of the old Buddhas,
and then from Dharmakaya Buddha,
and Efid Sambokaya,
and Nirmakaya, and Nirmakaya of the Yishim Surya,
and the protractors of the Tibetans.
And that here, the Tibetan protractors,
but all the practitioners, all the beings.
And then, here, the foremost,
and the king of the blessed,
the one who grant supreme cities.
That is ordinary cities, a supreme city.
We already discussed that supreme cities
in the Chisamsanji and Gurumbuji.
Sometimes we have to go over anything.
And he is the principal dakini,
of the old dakinis.
All the dakinis, he is the one,
the principal dakinis, supreme cities.
So this Yishim Surya, then I praise.
I think same as Shri Praya.
Again, we are praying, it's the same thing
with devotion, with confidence.
See, Yishim Surya is embodiment of all Buddhas
and all Dharmas.
And what great Master Yimu Nirmakaya said,
when we do the practice of the queen of blessedness.
What is it?
He said, you are, in the Dharmakaya level,
you are the Samhina Buddha.
And in the Nirmakaya level,
you are the Five Pimal Buddhas.
And in the Sambukaya level,
In the Nirmakaya level,
you are Yishim Surya.
And that time, Yishim Surya, how is this?
The whole universe is the middle of the Nirmakinis.
And all the beings are the emanation of the Nirmakinis.
Nirmas and Nirmakinis.
And seeing that realization,
purveyor understands with immense devotion, joy,
and related with courage and commitment.
See, Yishim Surya is embodiment
of all the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, Guru Deva, and Rakinis.
And then, same thing.
Dharmakaya Buddha, Sambukaya Buddha, Nirmakaya Buddha,
all that dakas and dakinis, the Buddhas,
male Buddhas, Bhoi Pimal Buddhas,
all come together in one single state,
as a great mother, humble, kindness,
compared to mother, Yishim Surya, a peer.
And he is the transcendent of what is the name of the body.
As I said, he never died.
He left to bed.
To bed, flew away in the sky.
If you read that books, that's it.
And then, he said, "Here, blessing me."
Then, to all this, I mean, it's basically the same.
So, then I don't have to go over that.
And so, then, really, ask this.
Feel the strong presence of Yishim Surya
right in and from sky, sky, and then recursively.
So that, until from this, the first line, the second line,
third line, truth, to third line,
always object with explaining, object with a rafu,
object, Yishim Surya's call it realization, achievement.
From that on, then you pray.
You're connected to these great beings,
compassionate beings, to Yishim Surya,
and then you're recursively to what like to be fulfilled.
All that.
That to ourselves, to all the beings, really.
That with beautiful devotees thought,
more detailed thought, practice of that,
and then is the brilliant practice
of the great Western Mother, Yishim Surya.
And that is my brief talk today.
Thank you very much again, everyone.
Again, participation, and thank you.
As I said the other day,
please, not the other day.
Yesterday, we mentioned, I'd like to encourage you,
you can really practice of this to some side,
at least seven times a day, if you can.
And also, maybe three times, seven times,
maybe you can do Yishim Surya, pray.
It's really just wonderful, beautiful.
It will increase all these good things, what I said.
Increase, as I said here.
And this is what, again, I read this.
These were really increasing, increasing what I said here.
Here, it will increase, increasing the strength
of life spanish, spanish.
It's said lamas, but it's all of us, so it's lama, isn't it?
The practitioners and grant the blessings to despair,
the disease, the pain, the fight.
It will, and for both the sorceress,
the black marriage, we have some notion of the black marriage,
the sorceress, or the person, or disturbing something negative.
And it will dispel that.
And then it will increase, the blessings increase,
the long life, the glories, the wisdom,
all those of wealth, the estimation,
in the teaching of the Hishon.
It really will do those things.
And that, do that with the body, that thinking,
what I've all been.
And then it's just a grid of perfect.
And so that's my talk.
And again, we do, today, I think time is a little bit, again,
so we do three times Tzum Sahni play,
and then one time this Yishimsoja plays, okay?
And if you have this, again, play,
two times in a debate, one time in English, in Tzum Sahni.
And then one time play of the Yishimsoja, we do in English.
(clears throat)
(singing in foreign language)
Okay, again, thank you very much, everyone,
for participating, and thank you, okay?
All this, and again, if we don't see before,
in the technological level, I wish you a very happy,
healthy holidays, and beautiful year.
Really happy, happy year, peaceful days,
and performance, all that good wishes.
And thank you very much for participating,
and trashy delays, that's the case.
And so we completed our sessions of the teachings,
but now we'll do, there's some people request
to do the practice, or to pray,
to dedicate it to the three different
people ask to pray.
So I will read this, and then we do some prayers.
If you have time, please stay with us,
and we do this practice.
And then tomorrow, we're going to do the 10th dapuya,
verbal dapuya, at all this time, the four o'clock,
the time, so if you have time,
please join with the 10th dapuya
for a simple practice, okay?
Now I'm going to eat that again.
Seven.
Purifying the karma in a smooth passage
through the pardo to the Amitabha's pure land
of Devatine, for 108 lamps,
offering for Rachel Hohinberg's.
Purifying the karma in a smooth passage
through the pardo to the Amitabha's pure land
through Devatine, and the 21 lamps,
offering curse, miracles.
Removing disease and obstacles,
108 lamps, offering on Noli,
and removing disease and obstacles,
108 lamps, offering Louis Canon.
Seven lamps, offering for Bob Walker,
and removing disease and obstacles,
seven lamps, offering for Bob Walker.
Removing disease and obstacles,
seven lamps, offering for Ron Perry.
seven lamps, offering for Prasila Obi.
Removing disease and obstacles,
seven lamps, offering for Natasha Carson.
seven lamps, offering for Katie Brandachan.
And the Ken Yungi Power.
Power, remove that.
And removing disease and obstacles,
seven lamps, offering for Michael Kane.
Removing disease and obstacles,
seven lamps, offering for Randy Raw.
seven lamps, offering for Ori La Palu Biggs.
And then removing disease and obstacles,
for Lynne, as Cara Shalinga's mother,
so that also.
Well-being and performance in life,
108 lamps, offering for Orlando Ballade,
family, friends, and teachers, and sangha.
Well-being and performance in life,
seven lamps, offering for Kane,
giving me power, power, so to say.
So, those are the three individually,
of course, to do the pray and pray.
And pray and dedicate the merit to all this.
So, we think of all these individuals,
and then as well as every living being,
we do this pray, reciting some mantras,
and dedicating our merit of the teaching
and the practices to all these beings,
to everyone within our body to the total.
So please, again, as we did yesterday,
we go to the mantras here,
and according to this booklet,
pray to the 74th, I think pray to the 74th.
(singing in foreign language)
Next page.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]